# basepaint
The main goal of this repository is to be an archive for the art generated by the [basepaint.xyz](https://basepaint.xyz/) community.

# Howto
1. Clone the repository: `git clone git@github.com:isaacbernat/basepaint.git`
2. Move into the newly created directory: `cd basepaint`
3. [Get python](https://www.python.org/downloads/) and install dependencies:
    ```python
    python3 -m venv venv
    source venv/bin/activate
    python -m pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```
4. Create the archive: `python3 create_archive.py`
    This will create the following files:
    - `images/`: directory containing the images in .jpg format for the archive.
    - `metadata.csv`: csv file containing metadata for each image.
    - `basepaint_archive.pdf`: pdf with the archive in book format.

# Why this repo?
I couldn't find a convenient way to access the artworks generated by the [basepaint.xyz](https://basepaint.xyz/) community, especially offline and/or in pdf/printable format. I created this collection of tools to make it easier to access, share and promote the art created by the community.

# Fonts
The fonts used in this PDF and uploaded to this repo have permissible licenses that allow such uses and distribution to the best of my knowledge. The specific use of MEK font for the heading of each image was chosen to mimic the look and feel BasePaint's landing page and the license info is available at https://mek.gallery/fonts-(cc0)

# License
All rights related to the images and metadata belong to the [basepaint.xyz](https://basepaint.xyz/) community. Enquire them for more information. With regards to the code, the LICENSE file contains the license for this repository.

# About the Archive
This archive is a non-commercial, community-driven project intended for educational and historical purposes. It is **not** officially endorsed by the BasePaint team. Every effort has been made to respect the collaborative nature of BasePaint and the potential copyrights of individual creators.

**Copyright and Attribution:** All rights related to the images and metadata belong to the [basepaint.xyz](https://basepaint.xyz/) community. Individual creators may retain copyright of their work. Attribution for each image in the archive is based on the available information from BasePaint. We are actively working to improve the attribution process and welcome any information that can help us accurately credit creators.

**Disclaimer:** This archive is provided as-is. The maintainers of this repository are not responsible for any copyright infringements that may occur. If you are a creator and have any concerns about the inclusion of your work in this archive, please open a GitHub Issue in this repository and I will promptly address your request, including removal of your work from the archive if desired.
